okay everyone uh we have our last
speaker of the day
um I'm really excited to announce uh
Catherine Styler is our next speaker who
has been an International Champion for
openness as a legislator and
practitioner for over 20 years in August
2020 Catherine's appointed Chief
Executive Officer of Creative Commons
which as many of you know is a
non-profit organization that helps
overcome legal obstacles to the sharing
of knowledge and creativity to address
the world's pressing challenges
Catherine was elected vice chair of the
European Parliament or no sorry
Catherine stood for election as a member
of the European Parliament for Scotland
in 1999 representing the labor party at
the European Parliament she also became
one of Scotland's longest serving and
most respected legislators we're so
thrilled to have you uh thanks Catherine
foreign
[Applause]
thank you so much for that introduction
and uh that's a large picture up here so
um but it's great to be here and I feel
so inspired by all the previous speakers
and I think that there's just so much to
take away from today so I just wanted to
thank everyone for being so inspiring
but my talk today is around empowering
creators with better sharing sharing
matters and thanks to the digital
Revolution we share things like never
before from family photos to funny
videos from day to day life to college
courses and all of those instantaneously
and the variety and volume of sharing
today was absolutely unimaginable to
many of us even just a decade ago and
now we see social media and Publishing
platforms smartphones cheap data and
expanded internet access have enabled
more sharing both in forms that bring us
joy and connection but also in the
spread of Lies hate and misinformation
and our Digital Life reflects human
nature and I think some of the
discussion early and all is complexity
um highlighting both the good and the
bad and all this sharing has created a
flood of new copyright copyrighted Works
practically everyone is now a publisher
author many times over and we think of
all of those social media postings that
are out there but is the current
copyright Paradigm working in our
interests copyright law is complex
different in different countries and
stands often as a barrier to artists and
creators and not an enabler copyright
impacts us all artists creators and
users of content helping decide what we
can share read listen to and watch
online and we all agree that creators
should be fairly rewarded for their
works and the economic argument the
stronger protection for artists rights
will inevitably lead to more gains for
individual creators and may appear
really convincing in the abstract
however in practice the economic
argument we've heard a lot about
economics this afternoon but for
copyright does not turn out to be
persuasive because extending copyright
terms from a few decades to life plus 70
years has not materially increased
earnings for the majority of individual
creators instead it's generated greater
monopolies benefiting select
corporations whose profit motives lift
only a few stars and the vast majority
of creators do not experience the
benefits of current copyright system
firsthand these monopolies as we've
heard with previous speakers restrict
the nature and expression of art by
punishing or censoring anyone that can't
package and sell and when culture and
creativity are paywalled rented and held
for profit there's a chill cast on how
our society interoperates and ultimately
on the health of our democracy and
Democratic Institute Solutions
so what can artists and creators do that
don't have a best in a legal team at
hand many digital creatives have become
reluctant to include any copyrighted
material in their works because of
content removal's automatic penalties
for alleged infringement on other
persons copyrighted works and this stops
creators from Gaining exposure to new
audiences and thwart's creativity owner
is copyright that benefits the few and
not the many does not provoke Innovation
but directly hinders it
Sue in order to empower creators and
protect Democratic societies Creative
Commons has developed an alternative
system built upon existing All rights
Reserve copyright that enables a Commons
of knowledge and culture which is freely
accessible to everyone everywhere and we
offer a set of open licenses and public
domain tools free for anyone to use a
different system where creators can make
their own choices about which rights
they want to keep and which rights they
want to share and by making their own
choices for sharing creators can reach
new and expanded audiences and are
people across the planet can access
works and ideas to new and help build
New Creations Creative Commons licenses
are now a global standard for sharing
content for creators researchers
Educators Librarians archivists and
governments and this established model
for open sharing is now emerging in new
ways enabling creators to get credit and
reward for their creativity and share
their Works openly with all rather than
lock them up with Rusty keys of
copyright so these emerging practices
work by bringing together new
technologies for distribution ownership
and compensation with existing tools to
open copyright
as we as Creative Commons celebrate 20
years of facilitating the sharing of
content across our planet we can look
ahead and see how our mission intersects
with the issues goals and values of
artists and creators navigating and
ever-changing online world
firstly our strategic shift at Creative
Commons from a focus only on open
sharing to focus on better sharing helps
us address the careful balance between
sharing that's in the public interest
and sharing which is not and this is
important at time when all the benefits
that internet has brought to us are
quickly forgotten and the predominant
narrative that we hear we've heard this
afternoon is harm rather than public
interest so what are we talking about
when we talk about better sharing
sharing that's inclusive just an
equitable where everyone has wide
opportunity to access content to
contribute their own creativity and to
receive recognition and rewards for this
contributions sharing this reciprocal
where we rebalance the skewed world we
live in now in which a few produce and
profit from works that the many consume
and sharing that sustainable or open
participation in the public Commons is
the default rather than the exception
Creative Commons we want to shift this
narrative back to the importance of why
sharing matters and how we can do it
better and this is why we are an
organizing partner in a very nascent
better internet movement and actively
advocating around the world to ensure
that human values and public interest
are front and center in our online world
we also recently launched our open
climate campaign about accessing climate
data and research and we have four years
funding for that and we're deeply
excited about that opportunity to try
and make climate research more open and
more accessible
so as the digital landscape evolves and
new technologies like this the
distributed web that we've heard a
little bit about today the metaverse and
AI emerge we're also bringing the better
sharing point of view and the public
interest voice the conversations like
this one today where creators are
considering about new paradigms we heard
about scenario planning and the previous
speaker and about how we are all going
to have to work together about the
changes that we're seeing and time and
time again we see the public digital
digital public infrastructure that
supports the commons that we take for
granted under threat at a time when the
public interest often stands in direct
contrast to the commercial interests of
the creative Industries and large Tech
firms we need public investment in the
structures that undermine our open
Commons and if we're not careful
internet would just be a collection of
those company towns where you're paid in
company script you can only buy from the
company store and only hear the company
line and see the company Viewpoint and
with democracy already in such a fragile
state and open Society is threatened we
need investment in the infrastructure
that protects the public interest I see
that Creative Commons is part of that
public infrastructure and without it
will be poorer Less open and certainly
less Democratic but now let's take a
moment to look at the opportunities of
the intersection of better sharing for
the public comments and great Creator
autonomy
the first opportunity may be obvious but
has yet to be fully worked out
perhaps in this new decentralized web
Vision where digital artifacts are
permanently linked through essential
metadata we see an opportunity for the
tighter connection between Works their
authorship their provenance and their
intellectual property terms and if you
look around the internet today it's all
rather messy and we can challenge
ourselves to clean up this mess in the
new forms that can come out of what we
see today the second opportunity is
perhaps more obscure
well we might imagine that a new version
of the web will disrupt the reigning
intellectual property system for the
better in fact what we see is All rights
are served by default regime still very
much at play in new decentralized web
works and how it works like in the
copyright debate debates that we're
seeing around nfts what's more lots of
confusion is circulating about say how
nfts connect to IP rights of underlying
works and while it makes seem that
owning an nft somehow magically grants
IP rights to work it references instead
it seems that the same intellectual
property complexities that we see with
traditional practices still exist in the
distributed web and adding to the
confusion we already see different and
compatible and sometimes dubious IP
practices spreading across the
distributed web in this new world we
have the opportunity to do better by
adopting and if needed updating powerful
tools that we know already work standard
advertised open licensing and public
domain dedications from Creative Commons
that get everyone clear and consistent
guidance about their rights whether
we're thinking of AI or a metaverse or
whatever these places and spaces provide
for artists like yourself or others
having many digital artists embracing
the possibilities of what see a new web
could look like in AI using their art
sometimes to train AI systems like one
side last week when I was with Barry and
finished we saw someone who trained an
AI system in their own voice and then
dedicated it to the public domain but
also knowing many artists who have not
consented to their work being used to
train AI systems and where is their
voice
if better shedding is to be realized we
need to think of models of consent
attribution and dispute resolution to
enable artists to have the freedom to
choose what's best for their art and
another opportunity goes to the heart of
better sharing itself how to ensure that
the future of the internet Fosters a
better public Commons than we already
have
I see several challenges one is ease of
use it'll be harder than inclusive just
and Equitable comments when it's
difficult and confusing to create
sharing reuse closely related is
interoperability and a decentralized
paradigm we also need to make sure that
people information and creative Works
can cross over different communities and
collections without great friction
another's credibility it's a huge
distraction to the benefits we might
realize with Technologies like the
distributed web when there are still too
many scandals in the crypto world and
beyond all that how do we meet
challenges like these at the same time
to ensure that the web is truly
decentralized and doesn't concentrate
power money and control into the hands
of dominant players whether those
players are newly minted or the Same Old
Guard a look around sorry I can't see
you because I'm in I'm in the light and
you're in the darkness just now but I'm
looking around when I when I was in the
light and uh and I see so many people
here today who are interested in these
challenges and the opportunities and I'd
love to hear more about where you see
the opportunities in front of us and the
challenges we need to meet so I want to
give you the the opportunity if you
wanted to ask me any questions but I
wanted to say above all thank you to all
of you for for lasting the course this
afternoon for being here for the last
talk and thank you for giving me the
opportunity to share a little bit about
the thinking that we're having about how
better sharing can build a better
Commons for us all thank you so much
does anybody have any questions here I
could run on my yeah here we go Mickey
yeah
hi Catherine um I love the Creative
Commons um I feel I I maybe just I'm too
naive about this so this is more of a
question just because I don't know
um you know a lot of my work has been as
a product designer and that leads to
often helping people get patents for new
things and patent law also went through
a really chilling shift a little while
ago where it shifted to first to file
which means big corporations could file
early versus the first to invent the
person who actually invented and that
that sort of minimized and of course the
rise of patent trolls what do you what
is the Creative Commons doing around
that sort of Ip about around patents and
and the other kinds of things that might
be emergent more than ever like what was
your name again Mickey
thank you so much for that question it's
always good to have the first question I
mean at the moment
um we have taken an interest in IP we
did the open covered pledge back in when
you know when covered when we were just
in that terrible situation of trying to
think about what to do so we got people
together and now that's at American
University to help but
right
focus of our work on copyright
still the focus 20 years on and it
hasn't gone away and something that's
really interesting when many people ask
us what are you doing in IP or what
you're doing
um sorry what you're doing in patent or
what you're doing in trademark and we're
like well we're very much in that kind
of copyright column and that's a good
thing
but it's also an interesting observation
as we celebrate our 20 years anniversary
that instead of the licenses being a
patch in the copyright system actually
transforming that has not actually
happened in fact our licenses have
become actually even more important to
allow legal sharing
um and that's that's tailing right you
know we did well I've only been CU for
two years but when you look back at the
history of why it was created out of a
problem the American copyright system
it became a global phenomenon because
there was copyright problems across the
world and lawyers in different areas and
Barry was there from the beginning so
I'm kind of feeling telling you to suck
eggs Barry but but when you look at what
the energy and enthusiasm of lawyers
across the globe to translate the
licenses so in their own legal
jurisdictions there would be legal
certainty and so today coming out of an
American copyright problem we have a
Global Network Global chapters and I'd
encourage if any of you are interested
please join our Global Network and if
you're interested particularly in
culture join our open culture platform
because there's lots of good work going
on there too that that this energy
enthusiasm has set us on a course where
it's you know that Global aspect of what
we're looking at and what you're
touching upon is you know when we're
thinking about say the issue around
patents and the kind of global aspect
where a patency you know we've seen that
with the vaccines you know we haven't
got that right have we and we're the
political will is certainly not there to
get that right and yet we faced pandemic
so we're still very much focused on
copyright because the problems around
that are still very real and we think in
the next 20 years as we envision and try
and reimagine and hope dream of
something better that the challenges we
face and the learning that we've had
about why standards how we became a
model or a standard almost by default it
wasn't by Design
um that aspect of standards of
interoperability about how we can share
better whether it's in copyright or
within the area that you work upon is
still just as relevant today and
although I can't say that we'll be
involved so much in your life your line
of work because our copyright work still
goes on it's still an area of interest
and where we can impact we're still
there to do that
that was a long answer
I have a question
um
I want to dig in uh just a little bit
more into you know you know what I'm
going to ask you
um you know we have two big technologies
that in aggregate that are both big
opportunities and big challenges for
everybody working in Digital Arts one is
crypto web 3 nfts bucket the other is AI
um
you know
pandemic uh wiped out opportunities for
artists everywhere you know
um and in the midst of that
uh this miracle kind of thing came down
for a lot of people and allowed them to
you know have a market and there was
often not a market for digital art a lot
of places before also we had a lot of
friends that started thinking critically
about the climate implications of that
and the financialization of art we've
had this great discussion that everybody
should have had 50 years ago
and some people did
um
AI
is almost every week something's
released that's changed that's going to
change definitions of what people think
about art
there are no answers to this how is
Creative Commons thinking about
interfacing with this changing
technology landscape on the web to
questions
and ones which we are very cognizant of
body as you know
um and now he was at a little round
table we had to just was it just like no
last week in New York we were with a
bunch of yeah
yeah early Creative Commons folks and
something and you're working in new
places and spaces which is helping us
with our thinking because
you know this is being seen as being cc0
summer hasn't it and the conversation
still goes on and even in this past week
when I've been down at a web threesome
in Los Angeles and Thursday night you've
got people who are really using the
licenses the CCC and others who are very
against things going into the public
domain
and so these tensions as we talked about
Barry are very real now what is I always
say to my the team and always challenge
myself what is ours to do in the world
of today
and the thing is we cannot stand back
and allow things to happen if we're
better sharing the public interest and
the commons isn't part of the
conversation and at the moment There's
an opportunity I think to drive some of
the value layers that will be set down
and if we are not part of that
conversation putting the public interest
first putting better sharing at the
center of some of these conversations
then things will be lost and you will
not have the opportunity that some of
the things there are definitely an
opportunity but if it's just all the
worst aspects that we've seen that's not
an opportunity and I think everyone in
this room wants to see something better
than what we see today and you've seen
this in the conversations that we've had
up to up to this final one but then
let's see how we can do that and how can
we do that well we have to work together
we have to share the problems that we're
facing and we also have to think about
some of the Positive Solutions that are
out there that we can utilize and there
are some solutions that we've got but
but that public interest public value
layer of that's why we're part of this
decent better internet campaign to try
and put that forward and let's see where
where we go with that but you know look
out for when the launches are going to
be quite I think God it's the first of
October isn't it today so I mean in
October the year is passing
um but look out for the better internet
work that we're doing along with
internet archive at Wikimedia and public
knowledge and I'm really looking forward
to see
one last question
when is the 20th anniversary party and
where
the 17th of November
we're working on something working on a
little something
[Music]
please let me know
excellent thank you so much yeah thanks
foreign